Hi and welcome to this week's Stella
developer meeting. Today I'm going to
talk about
quickstart. So what is quickstart? Well,
quickart is a local stellar network
environment. So quickart is a docker
image that bundles stella core with
horizon RPC friendbot and a database.
And quick start can run locally as
either mainet, testn net, future net or
or a customizable local
network. Quick start is great for
developers who want to test smart
contracts, experiment with the Stella
network, and learn about Stella's
features in a control environment. And I
can tell you that SDF engineers use
quickart quite a bit.
There are two different operational
modes. There's ephemeral mode that
cleans the database and start up with a
default config at each startup. And then
there's persistent mode that mounts a
volume on your local machine and persist
the database and the
configurations. It's very easy to set up
quick start. All you need is Stella CLI
and Docker installed on your local
machine and then you can use the CLI
command Stella network container start
to set up quick start on your local
machine. In this case, we use a command
to set it up as test net. And when the
quick start is set up, you can access
test net with these settings.
After this presentation, I'm going to
give a quick intro to how to actually
use it in practice. And two ways to use
it is to use Stella Lab. You can connect
Stella Lab to quick
start or you can deploy a smart
contract and you deploy it just like
you're used to. First, you set up in
this case we use the hello world. You
set up the smart contract, you create an
identity and you build the contract.
And then you deploy the smart contract
but instead of deploying it to the test
net or mainet or future net you deploy
it to your local quick start
environment. In this case we use the
local host as the RPC URL to tell
stellar contract deploy command that we
want to deploy it onto quick start. And
once deployed we can invoke the smart
contract just like we're used to when we
have deployed it to test net or mainet.
I want to put a little bit of focus on
the documentation here. If you want to
know more in details how how quickart
works and how to set it up, you can go
to our documentation, go to tools and go
to quick
start. Here you'll find all the relevant
information you will need. You can read
about how to get it set up, the network
modes, how to work the the friendbot
faucet, how to debug, and do some
advanced settings that I'm not going to
cover in this
presentation. But let's try to to set it
up on my local machine.
Okay, so here we have the
terminal. First, if you remember, we can
use a command from the Stella CLI to set
up
our our quick start. And in this case, I
want to use a test net. And I just name
this quick start
minet. And that was it. Now the quick
start is up and running on my local
system. So let's go ahead and and build
a smart contract. Actually we'll use the
hello world example.
And then we will need a
user. Let's call this a different name
that I have not used before. Call
it Frank.
And now
let's now let's build the contract.
Okay, the hello world smart contract is
now built and now we want to deploy it
onto quick
start. As mentioned before, we can here
see that instead of instead of deploying
it to the actual test net or mainet, we
specify the RPC URL here and we use the
the local
host / RPC and the rest is as we usually
use when we deploy to test
net. Okay, so now we actually have the
hello world smart contract deployed to
quick
start. Next, what we want to do is to
try to invoke
it and let's use the contract
ID was given us here.
and it was successful. So as you can see
here once we have set up quick start we
can deploy our smart contracts to quick
start and run it locally instead of
running it on the test net or the mainet
the public ones and it works exactly the
same
way. Now let's try to
connect Stella Lab instead of using the
the terminal
I have still a lab in this window. And
the way you connect it to your your
local quick start is you go up to the
network selector here and instead of
test net here you choose
custom. I have already tried this. So
these fields are already  populated.
these fields are already populated.
But the quick start URLs are localhost
at port 8000/ RPC for the RPC and
Horizon is just the local host at port
8000. And the network phrase is the same
as if we were using the public test net.
So let's switch to the custom network.
So now Stella Lab is connected to our
quick
start and we can do everything we
usually do when we're connected to
either test net or mainet or future net.
Let's just try to generate a key
pair and we can fund it with
friendbot. So this works exactly like if
you were connected to a test net. One
thing to notice here is that usually if
you use testn net you will get a link to
stellar expert so you can go and take a
look at at your user account there.
obviously we can't do that because our
cell  explorer is not  looking at
cell explorer is not looking at
our local  quick start but otherwise
our local quick start but otherwise
it works exactly like if we were working
on the public test
net. I hope this little introduction to
quick start was useful. If you have any
questions feel free to ask.  you can
questions feel free to ask. you can
ask  in in Discord. I know there's a
ask in in Discord. I know there's a
lot of quick start users in in Discord
as well. But  hopefully this will give
as well. But hopefully this will give
you  an a a great tool to work with
you an a a great tool to work with
for these special requirements where
maybe you want to  use some locking.
maybe you want to use some locking.
There's some great locking features
with quick start. So go explore it. Go
take a look at the documentation and see
how this can be useful for you. Thank
you for joining.